docs/NAPE_Head.rst, before:

.. NAPE2p_Benchmark Documentation documentation master file, created by
   sphinx-quickstart on Fri Nov  1 10:21:54 2019.
   You can adapt this file completely to your liking, but it should at least
   contain the root `toctree` directive.

.. Title is above = signs and length of = should be longer than the title

Welcome to NAPE Center Calcium Imaging Analysis Documentation Site!        
===========================================================================

.. Home Page Description

Welcome to the University of Washington Center for Neurobiology of Addiction, Pain, and Emotion (NAPE) 2-photon calcium imaging analysis documentation website. Here we provide comprehensive documentation and guidelines for using the preprocessing and analysis tools for deep brain, GRIN-lens 2-photon calcium imaging.

Custom code and documentation were written by Zhe Charles Zhou and Tanish Kapur.

___________________________________________________________________________

.. Index of pages where names refer to relevant file names. Change maxdepth to increase number of sub headings (should be one more than actual number of headings)

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 3
   :caption: Contents

   suite2p
   demos

Commit message:

Added script for replace and extra comments

docs/NAPE_Head.rst, after:

.. NAPE2p_Benchmark Documentation documentation master file, created by
   sphinx-quickstart on Fri Nov  1 10:21:54 2019.
   You can adapt this file completely to your liking, but it should at least
   contain the root `toctree` directive.

.. At the beginning of a line, ".." indicate the start of .rst syntax. For comments, we don't anything special after that.

.. Title is above = signs and length of = should be longer than the title. '=' is heading size 3, and we can use other special characters for different heading sizes, which can be referred in the cheat sheet.

Welcome to NAPE Center Calcium Imaging Analysis Documentation Site!        
===========================================================================

.. Home Page Description

Welcome to the University of Washington Center for Neurobiology of Addiction, Pain, and Emotion (NAPE) 2-photon calcium imaging analysis documentation website. Here we provide comprehensive documentation and guidelines for using the preprocessing and analysis tools for deep brain, GRIN-lens 2-photon calcium imaging.

Custom code and documentation were written by Zhe Charles Zhou and Tanish Kapur.

___________________________________________________________________________

.. Index of pages where names refer to relevant file names (or path if it is not in the same folder). Change maxdepth to increase number of sub headings (should be one more than actual number of headings)

.. toctree is Sphinx's custom directive to link different files together, as .rst doesn't have any feature like that

.. :caption: sets the title of our subheadings

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 3
   :caption: Contents

   suite2p
   demos
